== History & Intent of pTolemy3D ==

----

== Why? ==

Currently there are a only handful of browser embedded 3D virtual globes that provide for the ability to create geoweb applications using AJAX techniques in existence. We believe the role of this kind of technology is growing quickly largely due to the action of the big players such as Google Earth (GE) and Microsoft Virtual Earth (MSVE).

The well know ones, such as the GE Plugin, an embedded version of the original standalone GE, can be used to create custom applications using AJAX techniques leveraging Google Earth's immense data base.  However, with a few select exceptions (such as WorldWind Java [WWJ]), such tools are proprietary systems with complex EULAs limiting use in business environments.  If used professionally, they normally require costly licensing fees. 

There are two sides to this problem. First, "can you use the Delivery Technology?" Second, "can you use the Content Services?" The pTolemy3D project's goal is to help simplify those two concerns.  Remedies include provision of an unencumbered viewer, in the same tradition as many of the excellent FOSS tools such as GNU/Linux.  Equally important, is the provision of tools to make creating your own 3D worlds easier so developers can "roll their own" 3D worlds.  We don't expect our tools will be used to create databases the size of what MSVE or GE depend on.  Rather, we see many more specialized geoweb applications having a more modest regional, state, county, city, project, and so on. The data being used will be served from multiple sources. In aggregate they may add up to the "big ones".

Some have stated NASA's WWJ is a better choice than pTolemy3D. We recognize that it is more mature and consider it as one of several references for improvements to pTolemy3D. Our perspective is different than WWJ and that is ok.  Are you a Java developer or organization mainly interested in a browser embedded viewer (meaning emphasis on a simple to use Javascript API)? Do you want to be able to make direct impact on core components of the Viewer or its plugins by participating at an early stage in engineering those changes? Are you more comfortable working with an open process and full SVN repository?  If yes, then pTolemy3D is a better choice.

== Who? ==

pTolemy3D's sponsor is SpatialCloud.  SpatialCloud's business model is focused on providing automation around packaging map data for use within enterprise class geoweb applications.  Data preparation, and the hosting/reselling of content will be supported, with an initial emphasis on image and terrain data.  SpatialCloud.com will provide both prepackaged content and allow end user generated content to be served from world-class cloud infrastructure.

SpatialCloud was created by Aerial Services, Inc., a geospatial company providing aerial photography, mapping, and GIS solutions since 1967. Key actors include employees of Aerial Services: Mark Korver, Director of Geospatial Business Development; Mike Tully, President & CEO; Joshua McNary, Marketing Advocate. In addition, a number of other independent consultants and developers scattered across the globe are involved with the project.

== Where did pTolemy3D come from? ==

The pTolemy3D code-base is based on Mark Korver's previous work with JetStream-3D (JS3D). JS3D was created by Alchemedia, Inc. (Tokyo, Japan), a software development company specializing in geoweb applications, where Mark was a founding partner and CEO.  Development of JS3D dates back to Fall 2002, when it was able to show "flat worlds" as an browser embedded applet using jpeg2000 encoded image data on top of TIN data. By 2003, it was able to support a globe and had a data architecture able to support "world-sized" high resolution data, assuming enough disk storage was available.  During the 2003 to 2006 period, a number of corporate projects using JS3D were implemented in Japan, mainly in the energy and government sectors.  

pTolemy3D maintains the core concept of JS3D, cross-platform 3D visualization focused on embedded browser use. It does this with a small core and most functionality, such as WFS access, built using a plugin concept.     
 
== Questions? Comments? ==
Since pTolemy3D is a community oriented project you have questions, comments, concerns, feature requests, or feedback for the pTolemy3D team you are encouraged to provide it in a number of ways.  You may consider joining [http://groups.google.com/group/ptolemy3d/ pTolemy3D's Google Group], 
[http://groups.google.com/group/ptolemy3d/topics post in the forums], and/or [mailto:jmcnary@spatialcloud.com contact via email].  




